Richard Nixon was the 37th president of the United States. Born in a rich hereditary Quaker family from his mother, he grew up with the religion in Whittier, California. As an Evangelic Quaker, Nixon attended church every Sunday but ultimately distanced himself after attending university. His involvement in politics made him keep his religion detached to appeal to a larger number of people, but at the same time used it on occasions to bring him benefit. Quaker Faith allowed him to deflect criticism or give him positive results, even “as he distanced himself from its demands and often went against its tradition”(Nixon’s First Cover-up by Larry Ingle, pg. 3). As a lifelong politician he served as though his religious beliefs were not as important to him as his actions. Being a major political figure, Nixon had an unusual relationship with Quakerism. Despite inheriting his religion and being shaped by it in his early years, he grew distant after becoming interested in politics and being affected by events such as the World Wars. 
	Richard M. Nixon was a long-life-birthed Quaker. His maternal ancestors were the Milhouses, who represented a long line worth of friends that immigrated from Pennsylvania to Ohio, Indiana, and finally Southern California. After staying in California, they joined the East Whitter Friends Church which was part of the California Yearly Meeting. At the time the evangelical movement was recent and it had sharp differences in Quaker practices. The church was considered to be a “community church”, where there were low standards for membership. They welcomed almost anyone without requiring much beyond a verbal confession of the belief in Christ’s saving atonement and personal standards. (Nixon’s First Cover-up by Larry Ingle, pg. 23). Their changes in practices allowed them to adapt and appeal to a larger population quickly.
The Evangelical practice separated itself from the traditional Quaker practices and had a lot of changes that shaped the generation of Richard Nixon. It welcomed almost any person regardless of all denominations, including Roman Catholics. The idea of it becoming a community church made Quaker traditions difficult to be preserved. The church would be made and operated by community members without necessarily adhering to Quaker values. For example, there was an instance where the U.S. flag was put in the main room of the church to honor the soldiers in the war, and disagreeing with it would be against their own idea of being a community church. “Once the idea of a community church captured the ground there was no going back”(Nixon’s First Cover-up by Larry Ingle, pg. 25)
Richard Nixon was slowly growing into the Evangelical Quaker practice. There were events that affected the way the church was operating. People were reacting to the ongoing effects of WWI and the great depression. Certain events made them create changes to the practices they followed. While Nixon was an adolescent, the head of the yearly meeting’s peace committee began declining the teaching of pacifism. From 1933 to 1948, local Quaker churches were not taught to be against participating in the war. It was reasoned that due to being a community church, there was a hesitation to teach pacifism.
Nixon’s quaker life created a path for his political career. After graduating from Whittier College, a Quaker school, the evangelical influence was very low because of WWII. There were concepts that created a struggle between science and religion, which lowered the influence of Evangelicalism. He went to Duke Law school and practiced in his hometown, but was getting ready for a political career. After the war and his discharge, he was selected to be a U.S. state representative. The Evangelical influence had also exponentially grown after the war and he was able to begin his career. 
Although he had a lot of success in politics, his career created a challenge for his personal life. Richard Nixon had to battle between his religion and political career. He had to make himself appealing to the general public and give himself the power to beat his competitors. There were a lot of inherent problems with politics and his religion. His religion had ideas that required him to some extent distance himself from the larger world. On the contrary, his political career required him to compromise and temporize to identify with the larger public. Nixon had to live in different worlds with major demands.
Instead of giving up his religion, Nixon started implementing it to connect with the public. He would use his religion as a way to demonstrate silence and quietness when it was needed. He also used it during his scandal in the Watergate situation. From his grandmother and family. Nixon also recognized the ways they had used their religion to be leaders and minister to his church. He learned how to be a leader and identified his mother as the biggest impact on his religious development. Apart from using his religion as a political tool, Nixon recognized that the only reason he kept his religion was because of his mother. Since her moral authority was very powerful in his life. 
Richard Nixon practiced his religion throughout his political career but was extremely conserved about it. In interviews and biographies, Evangelical Quakerism was hardly ever mentioned. His need to connect to a larger audience could’ve been the reason, but he only mentions a couple of paragraphs in his personal memoir. He was said to “be more reticent about his faith than was his wife”(Nixon’s First Cover-up by Larry Ingle, pg. 34). Although he practiced Evangelical Quakerism, his mother indicated in an interview that he had directly violated one of the central tenets of their faith by being involved in a war. But as his mother mentioned, he also had to compromise a lot for his extremely important role as the president.
Nixon’s practice of his faith continued with his family. He would go to a Quaker church in Washington and would occasionally mention his beliefs. Nixon's Quaker faith emphasized the importance of silence, simplicity, and pacifism  “I rate myself a deeply committed pacifist, perhaps because of my Quaker heritage from my mother.”(Nixon’s First Cover-up by Larry Ingle, pg.15). These practices were evident in his life, both in his commitment to attending Friends meetings and in his support of nonviolent solutions to conflict. Additionally, his belief in the importance of personal integrity and honesty was grounded in the Quaker faith. Nixon's theology emphasized the inner experience of God's presence, which he wrote about in his book, "Beyond Peace."
Richard Nixon’s life has several lessons we can learn from. He face the challenge of balancing his religion with his political career and had to choose how open he could be. Being such an important figure, it’s complicated to take an action that directly opposes personal beliefs. His personal honesty and integrity is also important lesson to learn from. He was able to recognize and reflect on his mistakes. The watergate scandal ruined his career and credibility, but he was open to interviewing and writing books on his mistakes. It’s admirable that he was also able to prioritize the country and the people over himself.
Richard Nixon was born a Quaker. For generations, his family followed Quaker traditions. He attended an Evangelical Quaker Church, where he learned fundamental lessons for his career. He graduated from a Quaker university in his hometown and went on to study law at Duke University. Movements and WWII put Evangelical influence at an old-time low but soon surfaced again after the war. After being discharged from the war, he was able to start his political career as a U.S. representative. As his career grew exponentially, he began distancing himself from his religion. He faced the challenge of practicing his religion or keeping it reserved to appeal to a large audience. In some cases, he was able to use his religion as a tool in situations or to connect with the public. Major figures such as his grandmother and mother, made him keep his faith throughout his career and keep practicing it. During and after his political career, he continued his faith in his family. Although Richard Nixon grew distant from his religion, he preserved it his entire life and was able to make impactful actions for the U.S
